# Sphinx Setup
- Install Sphinx:
  - Run `pip install sphinx` to install Sphinx.
- Initialize Sphinx:
  - In your terminal, **navigate to the `docs`** directory and run **`sphinx-quickstart`**.
- Configure `conf.py`:
  - This file is used by Sphinx to configure various aspects of your documentation.
  - This configuration adds your project (py_docs_example) to the Python path so Sphinx can find your modules.
     - It sets the project name and author, and includes some common extensions like autodoc (for automatic documentation from docstrings) and viewcode (to include source code views).
  - Edit `docs/conf.py` to include your project details and configurations. 
  - For example, set the `project`, `author`, and add extensions like 
    `sphinx.ext.autodoc`.
- Configure Documentation Source Files, index.rst
  - Create .rst Files
  - This is the main documentation source file that Sphinx uses to generate your project's documentation.
  - Edit `docs/index.rst` to include the main sections of your documentation.
  - Create additional `.rst` files for detailed documentation, referencing your modules.
  - This file defines the structure of your documentation. The toctree directive is used to include other documentation sources; in this case, modules, which Sphinx will automatically generate to document your Python modules.

## `setup.py`
This file is used to package and distribute your Python project. For Sphinx, you don't need to make specific changes for setup.py

## Generating Documentation
- Run sphinx-apidoc to generate **reStructuredText**(the `.rst`) files from your Python modules. **Navigate to your docs directory** and run.
  ```shell
  sphinx-apidoc -o . ../py_docs_example
  ```
- Build your documentation. **Inside the docs directory**, run the following and this will generate HTML documentation in `docs/_build/html`
  ```shell
   make html
  ```
- Customize your documentation by editing the .rst files generated by sphinx-apidoc and adding more details to index.rst.

## sphinx extensions
- sphinx.ext.coverage
  - > The sphinx.ext.coverage extension is used for analyzing the documentation coverage of your project. It helps you identify which parts of your code are not documented. This can be particularly useful in larger projects where maintaining comprehensive documentation is crucial.
  - > When you enable this extension, Sphinx can generate a coverage report as part of the documentation build process. This report lists all Python modules, classes, functions, and methods found in your project and indicates whether each has been documented. If a particular element is not documented, it will be flagged in the report, allowing you to easily identify gaps in your documentation
- sphinx.ext.napoleon 
<pre>
The sphinx.ext.napoleon extension in Sphinx is used for supporting two popular styles of docstrings in 
Python: NumPy and Google. It allows Sphinx to parse these specific styles and convert them into its own reStructuredText format, which is then used for generating project documentation. This extension is particularly useful because it lets developers write docstrings in a more human-readable format while still being able to generate well-structured and professional documentation.

Features of NumPy and Google Docstring Styles:
NumPy Style: 
Known for its use of block comments, where each parameter, return type, and other information is listed 
in a structured block. It's popular in scientific and mathematical projects due to its clarity and readability.

Google Style: 
Similar to NumPy but tends to be more concise. It uses a simpler format for parameters and return values, which 
some developers find more readable and easier to write.

Why Use sphinx.ext.napoleon?
Readability: Both the NumPy and Google styles are more readable for many developers compared to the traditional
reStructuredText format used by Sphinx. This can make the codebase more accessible and easier to maintain.

Consistency: 
If a project already uses one of these styles, sphinx.ext.napoleon ensures that the existing docstrings 
can be seamlessly integrated into the Sphinx documentation without needing to convert them into reStructuredText.

Community Standards: 
Many Python projects, especially in scientific and analytical domains, have adopted these styles. 
Using sphinx.ext.napoleon allows for alignment with these community standards.

Flexibility: 
It provides an alternative to the traditional Sphinx syntax, giving developers more options for documenting 
their code.
</pre>

## More details on Docstring Styles
- With Napoleon enabled, you can now write your docstrings in either the Google or NumPy style, and Sphinx will be able to parse them correctly.
- Example of what each style see below:
- **Google style**:
<pre>
def function(arg1, arg2):
    """
    Description of the function.

    Args:
        arg1 (int): Description of arg1
        arg2 (str): Description of arg2

    Returns:
        bool: Description of return value
    """
    pass
</pre>
- **NumPy style**:
<pre>
  def function(arg1, arg2):
    """
    Description of the function.

    Parameters
    ----------
    arg1 : int
        Description of arg1
    arg2 : str
        Description of arg2

    Returns
    -------
    bool
        Description of return value
    """
    pass
</pre>